---
title: Learnship 14 - 2023/11/02
date: 2023-11-02 00:00:00
tags:
    - Learnship
---

## Business Language Coaching - Session 13 - Closing A Presentation (2)

* compare some different communicative strategies for closing a presentation
* build a presentation close together

### Impromptu presentation practice

Topic: International charities are not always the most deserving of our donations.

* conversely
* in addition to
* with that in mind
* nevertheless

### Group the expressions according to which closing technique they can best be used for.

Summary:

* Let's take a look back at what we've spoken about this morning.
* Here, at a glance, are the main points I've made ...
* So, how to sum up?
* In a nutshell, then ...

Wisdom:

* I'm reminded of the words of ...
* We have a saying where I come from ...
* In the famous words of ...

Action:

* Now let's get out there and ...!
* I'm counting on you to ...
* So, next time you ..., remember to ...

Emotion:

* If you take just one thing from this talk, take this ...
* In the end, this is what matters
* So what does all this really mean for you - personally?

### Task: Creating a close for one of your demos

Using what you've learned about how to create a memorable presentation close, choose one of the approaches and brainstorm ideas for what you could say at the end of your demo.

* OK, so we're going to save X each year and with that we can Y ...
* So, how to actually put this into practice? / So, how do we get there?

Summary -> next steps

## Vocabulary/Notes

* the snow season is much* longer
* to be deserving of
* conversely(no need for 'but')
* at fault: responsible for
* I have done* the categorizing
* so, I'm looking forwarding to updating you ...
