---
title: Learnship 10 - 2023/10/19
date: 2023-10-19 00:00:00
tags:
    - Learnship
---

## Business Language Coaching - Session 10 - Using Discourse Markers for Cohesive Speaking & Writing

* learn about discourse markers and how to use them to improve your speaking
* build on our work on impromptu presentations

### STARTING POINT

We've looked at many aspects of your communication while practising impromptu presentations. What have you identified as the areas you need to focus on?

### Discourse Markers: What are they?

#### Read the text below. It contains several discourse markers. Can you identify them? (Don't worry if you don't know what discourse markers are yet!)

**To tell you the truth**, I really don't like the way advertisers manipulate us into buying their products. **After all**, it's just that, manipulation! **Admittedly**, it's their job to sell products, but **quite honestly**, I find it to be a cynical industry so I try not to be taken in by it. **Obviously**, there’s not much we consumers can do about it... advertising is everywhere. **Talking of** ads; have you see the new Coca-Cola one?"

### Linking words and relative clauses

#### First, read the information about linking words and phrases.

Examples of linking words are: *and*, *but*, *because*, *so*, *However*, *Therefore*, *In general*, etc. These words and phrases join one idea to another. They help the reader to understand the structure of an argument. When linking words come at the beginning of a sentence they are usually followed by a comma.

#### Complete the table with words from the boxes

Sequences:              Firstly         Secondly                    Finally
Taking generally:       In general      Above all                   On the whole
Contrast:               However         On another point            On the other hand
Adding another point:   In addition     Furthermore                 Nevertheless
Important example:      Especially      In particular               Typically

Surprising but true:    In fact         Actually                    As a matter of fact
Something obvious:      Clearly         Obviously                   Of course
Result/Consequence:     As a result     For this reason             Therefore
New topic:              In relation to  As far as ... is concerned  With reference to
Summarizing:            In brief        In short                    So, to sum up

#### Complete these extracts from an internal presentation to a sales department with a discourse marker from the box. Use the information in brackets to help you.

Our department has faced a lot of criticism recently. **Quite honestly** (*I'm giving you some very frank information*), it's the worst we've had for a long time, so things must change...

**Admittedly** (*I know this point weakens my position*), we should have recognized our sales had been consistently low, but we didn’t and we've got to face the consequences. **Of course** (*this point is expected*), management want to know what we're going to do about things. **Obviously** (*this is clear*), I'm not going to blame anyone, **after all** (*I'm adding some additional, true information*), it's no one’s fault...

So, moving on, **basically** (*this is the main idea*), we're suggesting we regroup. This will refresh the team and **as I was saying** (*I've already mentioned this*), the low sales are no one’s fault, so there’s no one person who should feel unhappy about moving teams. As a matter of fact (here's another true piece of information), we are also thinking of redefining our sales strategy too. **Mind you** (*I'm contrasting that information with a less strong message*), we don’t want to change things too much so the sales staff start to feel alienated...

**Anyway** (*I'm changing subject*), on Monday it's going to be a brand new start **so to speak** (*not literally, but figuratively*) and to **tell you the truth** (*I'm telling you exactly how I feel*) I can’t wait to begin!

### Vocabulary/Notes

* last night / yesterday evening

* it's really jarring

* discourse = speech

* discourse control

* that being said .../admittedly

* criticism

* mind you

## Homework

Read and learn the grammar notes about discourse markers.

### Truthfulness

1. *Honestly* and *frankly* are used to claim that the speaker is telling the truth. Often they introduce criticism or negative remarks. *Quite* adds emphasis to both words.

    *Frankly*, I didn't like the venue.

    *Quite honestly*, I thought your comments were ill-judged.

2. *To tell you the truth* and *to be honest* have a similar function.

    *To tell you the truth*, I didn’t enjoy the conference.

    To be honest, the meeting was a complete waste of time.

### Strengthening arguments

All of the following discourse markers stress the importance of the point that follows.

1. We can use *in fact*, *as a matter of fact*, and *after all* to suggest that an opinion is not personal, but is based on evidence.

    *As a matter of fact*, house prices fell by 2.5% last month. ;

2. We can use *if you ask me* and *I must say* to suggest that it is personal.

    *If you ask me*, the government is to blame for ruining the economy.

3. We can use *clearly*, *of course*, *naturally*, *obviously*, *undoubtedly*, and *after all* to suggest that what will follow is not controversial or will not be questioned.
    *Clearly*, the next two years will be critical for the future of the economy.

### Concession

1. We can use *admittedly*, *to be sure*, *it’s true that*, to acknowledge that someone has made a good point before disagreeing with them, or to concede a negative point before making a different point. The sentence that follows often begins with *but* or *however*.

    *Admittedly*, the result could have been better. *However*, we retained our position as market leader.

2. We can concede that someone else has a point before making our own point, to make our own point sound stronger or more carefully thought out. To do this, *admittedly*, *to be sure*, and *it’s true that ... but / however* are possible.

    A: We're in danger of missing the deadline.

    B: *It’s true that* we're dealing with an incredibly large workload at the moment, *but* I know that we can meet this deadline.

### Discourse patterns

Some discourse markers draw attention to the discourse itself - the pattern of what is said.

1. We can use the following to rephrase or paraphrase an argument: *as I was saying*, *as it were*, *I mean*, *if you like*, *so to speak*, *that’s to say*, *to put it another way*, *well*.

    Your holiday could cause a real problem for ... *well, I mean*, we need to amend the schedules, really.

2. We can use the following to link to a new topic: *now*, *anyway*, *mind you*, *moving on*, *actually*, *indeed*.

    So, that's the plan for the next two months. *Anyway*, didn’t you want to ask me about the sales figures?

3. We can use the following to return to a previous topic: *anyway*, *as I was saying*.

    The contract was signed yesterday and ... oh, David, you've decided to join us! *Anyway, as I was saying*, the contract has just been i signed and ...

4. We can use the following to introduce a conclusion: *so*, *anyway*, *basically*, *in conclusion*, *to sum up*.

    That was what my report uncovered, so *basically*, we have to consolidate our product list over the next year.

### Acknowledging non-literal meanings

Some discourse markers show that language is being used in a way that is different from its usual, literal meaning: *so to speak*, *as it were*, *if you will / like*.

    A: George seems quite volatile.
    B: Yeah, he’s a bomb waiting to go off, *so to speak*.

## The Exercise

### Choose the correct answer from the words in italics.

Jason

Time’s running out for the in-house magazine! **Basically**, the editorial team have had enough of waiting for articles and have started writing them themselves. It's **obviously** been forgotten that they have real jobs to do too! **Anyway**, could you send whatever you've collected? **After all**, anything is better than nothing at all.

**Quite honestly**, I don’t know why they don't scale it down to publishing it twice a year. We discussed this a few months ago but no one seemed very keen. **As a matter of fact**, when Henri left the meeting he was so upset! **Admittedly**, someone said they found the themes he suggested for articles boring!

Have you heard, Ivica's abandoning us, **so to speak**? She’s taking a year off to travel. She says if she doesn't do it now she never will. **Mind you**, I don't blame her. Her department’s changed so much since the shake-up. **Of course**, she didn't say that was the reason for leaving, but we all think it is. **To tell you the truth**, I'd think of traveling the world if I worked for her boss!

Tanya

### Complete this conversation with the correct answer from the options in 1-10

A: Look, James — we're really having problems here. **If you ask me**, I think we should cancel our stand at the Mumbai conference.
B: **Quite honestly**, that seems like a bit of a radical solution — I'm really not sure about it.
A: I know what you mean, but **after all**, we're just not going to be ready to put together a decent stand by May.
B: **To tell you the truth**, I'm still not convinced. **After all**, all of our most important customers will be expecting us to have a big presence there.
A: Yes, but our stand is going to look terrible. **Obviously**, that’s not going to give our company a very good image in the industry. **Basically**, I think we should consider other methods of promotion and avoid the conference — we could print extra copies of our catalogue and advertising posters, for example.
B: OK - those are good ideas, and **admittedly** that would be the easier option, but I really think we should do those in addition to having the stand. If we all work really hard I'm sure we can get it ready in time for Mumbai.
A: I really don't think having the stand will be possible. **Mind you**, if we could get more people involved in the preparation it might be possible, I suppose. **Anyway**, we need to sort this out immediately. Could you find out if we would be able to expand the team?

### Type the correct words to complete the sentences

1. Now **as I was saying**, it is important to reach a large audience with this campaign.

2. The CEO is very keen on procedures and regulations - a real disciplinarian, **so to speak**.

3. The word is that he will resign, **quite honestly**, though I don't believe it.

4. Our sales are falling rapidly and **obviously** that is not good news.

5. **Anyway**, maybe we should move on to the next item on the agenda now.

### Type the correct words to complete the conversation

A: **To tell you the truth**, this won't be easy, but I am sure we can do it.

B: **After all**, we have the staffing and the resources, don't we?

A: Absolutely. **As a matter of fact**, I think we're in a strong position in that respect.

B: But **mind you**, there might be one or two obstacles in the development phase.

A: **Of course**, but I'm sure we'll be able to deal with them fairly easily.

### Choose the correct discourse marker to complete the sentences.

1. The quality of her work is always excellent. **As regards to** her timeliness, that's another story.

2. Our sales have increased significantly. **On the other hand**, employee turnover had also increased.

3. **If you ask me**, I don't think your idea is a practical one.

4. **While** the company promised bonuses, they subsequently changed their minds.

5. **Admittedly**, this has been a difficult year for all concerned.

6. Your revised report is excellent, **whereas** I was not particularly impressed with the original version.

7. **Of course**, I'll support you in any way I can.

8. **Clearly**, we need to upgrade our product if we're going to complete.

### Listen to extracts from Ranjit Shetty, an entrepreneur, giving a presentation. Correct each extract so that it matches what you hear. Listen again to check your answers.

<audio controls>
  <source src="/audio/session10_1.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

1. I've been doing some research into our position in the market and what opportunities are available to us, and to tell you the truth, I'm excited.

2. I'm excited because what comes across from talking to you is your collective enthusiasm in what we do and your genuine wish for us to succeed. After all, without your support my plans won't be possible.

3. Admittedly, things are going well now, but I am thinking five years down the line.

4. We could be missing out on a great opportunity if we don't diversify - mind you, this won't be cheap and it won't be easy.

5. Of course, I can't expect you to buy into this plan without some facts.

6. Basically, studies show that most companies only invest a small percentage of their advertising budget in print media.

7. As a matter of fact, most of our customers want agencies that offer a variety of advertising media. They want options.

8. Obviously, this information should ring alarm bells for us.

9. At the moment, we're third in our region for print media. Quite honestly, I'm not happy with that.

10. Ravi, our key account manager, actually comes from the field of online advertising so he's going to be our guru, so to speak.

11. Now, as I was saying before, we've secured external investment for our diversification plan and we've employed a consultant.

12. I accept that you may not like an outsider telling you what is the right thing to do, but we have to recognize that this person is an expert, and they may well see things, opportunities, that we might not. Anyway, he's on our side.
