---
title: Learnship 08 - 2023/10/11
date: 2023-10-11 00:00:00
tags:
    - Learnship
---

## Business Language Coaching - Session 8 - Giving an Impromptu Presentation (2)

* learn strategies and language for giving impromptu presentations
* do some real impromptu presentations

### Starting Point

What were your takeaways from last week's session on impromptu presentations? What are the key things the presenter should be trying to do in order to make the presentation successful?

### Task: Giving Impromptu Presentations

Key expressions

#### Setting the context

* So, the first thing/main thing is ...
* I think you should be aware that ...
* Where we are at the moment is ...
* What I can tell you is that ...
* I'd like to be able to ... but unfortunately I can't ...
* You'll appreciate that I still need to ...

#### Signalling intention

* Perhaps it would be a good idea if I just ... ?
* So, I'd just like to sketch out ...
* Let me just touch on ...
* I think that's covered everything.
* I also want to point out that ...
* Well, in a nutshell ...

#### Responding to questions and challenges

* I was coming to that.
* I have to admit that ...
* You're quite right, we need to address this.
* That's a good point.

#### Highlighting key points

* So, the first thing is ...
* And I think you should be aware that ...
* So, that's one key point right there.
* ... and I think this is a really important point ...
* So, the main thing to remember is ...

#### Responding to requests for details

* Let me check ... and I'll get back to you.
* I can't remember exactly, but off the top of my head ...
* I can double check if you like?
* I don't have the exact figures, but what if I ... ?

There are three scenarios below for which you'll need to give a 2-3 minute impromptu presentation. You'll have 90 seconds to prepare. Use the phrases and strategies we've learnt to help you. I'll give you feedback and notes to help you hone your skills.

#### Situation 1

Update to your manager/team leader in a meeting

#### Situation 2

explain your role to a new team member who is job-shadowing

## Vocabulary/Notes

* snow (uncountable - no 'snows')
* it's likely to block* people
* costumes
* I can easily get* lost
* in a nutshell
* to sketch out - to outline
* from what I know ...
