---
title: Learnship 04 - 2023/08/17
date: 2023-08-17 00:00:00
tags:
    - Learnship
---

## Business Language Coaching - Session 4 - Voice Power(2)

* review your homework assignments
* explore how pausing can help you communicate moe successfully

### Voice Power: Word Stress

**Look back at the excerpt from last week, in particular at the highlighted words. What do you think are the effects and benefits of adding emphasis or stress to certain words in a sentence?**

<audio controls>
  <source src="/audio/session3_2.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

You ***know**, | there are a lot of **myths** about speaking in public. | Myth number **one** | is that what you actually **say** | is only **seven** percent of the message. | **Thirty-eight** percent is how you **sound** | and **fifty-five** percent is how you **look**. | But think about it. | I mean, | if that was **true**, | you could go to a talk in **Swahili** | and still understand **ninety-three** percent! | Myth number **two** is that public speaking is most people’s **greatest** fear | - just above **death**. | The comedian Jerry Seinfeld has a great **joke** about that. | He **says**, | "Come **on**, | if it **really** was their greatest fear, | at a **funeral** | the person giving the **eulogy** | would rather be in the **box**!"

The benefits:

* people would pay attention
* easier to recall and recollect
* be more convincing
* expressing feeling/emotions

### Voice Power - Word Stress

**In English, word stress is an important part of how we communicate, and changing what we stress can radically change what we mean. In each extract below underline the main stress in the two sentences.

<audio controls>
  <source src="/audio/session4_1.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

a We haven't seen a **massive** improvement yet. But it's a **good** start.

b We **haven't** seen a massive improvement **yet**. But my guess is we soon **will**.

***

c The **market** may be declining. But fortunately our **market share** isn't.

d The market may be **declining**. Or this could just be a **temporary blip**.

***

e We do pretty well in the **States**. But we don’t do so well in **Europe**.

f We do **pretty well** in the States. But not **as well as** we could be doing.

***

g Turnover is **up** on Q3. But profits are **down**.

h Turnover is up on **Q3**. But that was a particularly **bad** quarter.

***

i It's **hard** to gain a foothold in India. But not **impossible**.

j It's hard to gain a foothold **in India**. But harder **still** to gain one in **China**.

***

k There are **a couple of** points I'd like to make. And **both** concern cash flow.

l There are a couple of points **I'd like** to make. And **then** I'll hand you over to Jan.

**Work in opposing teams. You are going to re-enact two dramatic presentations from the classic business movie Other People’s Money.**

The scene:

> Andrew Jorgenson is the patriarchal chairman of New England Wire and Cable. Once highly successful, his company has not kept up with new technology and both revenues and share price are down. Lawrence Garfield, known to his enemies as ‘Larry the Liquidator’, a corporate financier and one of the major stockholders, is trying to persuade the other stockholders at the annual general meeting to vote him in as the new chairman, so he can carry out his plan to sell off the company’s considerable assets before its share price falls any further. Of course, this will mean the closure of the firm and the loss of thousands of jobs.

**Work together annotating this famous movie scene using the points below. Then rehearse and read it aloud.**

I want to **share** with you some of my thoughts **concerning** the vote that you're going to make in the company that **you** own. This proud **company**, which has survived the **death** of its founder, numerous **recessions**, one major **depression**, and two world **wars**, is in **imminent** danger of self-destructing - on **this** day, in the town of its birth. There is the **instrument** of our destruction. I want **you** to look at **him** in all of his glory, Larry the Liquidator, the **entrepreneur** of post-industrial America, playing **God** with other people’s money. This man leaves **nothing**. He creates **nothing**, he builds **nothing**, he runs **nothing**.

<audio controls>
  <source src="/audio/session4_2.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

### Vocabulary/Notes

* several months back
