---
title: Learnship 09 - 2023/10/16
date: 2023-10-16 00:00:00
tags:
    - Learnship
---

## Business Language Coaching - Session 9 - Giving an Impromptu Presentation (3)

* learn strategies and language for giving impromptu presentations
* do some real impromptu presentations

### Starting Point

Thinking back over the last couple of sessions, what about impromptu presentations do you think you've down well and what have you found more difficult?

* cannot go deeply into details -> reiterate key points, summarize
* interaction between presenter and audience
* formulate structure in your head e.g. for v.s. against, bullets, pros & cons, before / after

### Task: Giving Impromptu Presentations

There are three scenarios below for which you'll need to give a 2-3 minute impromptu presentation. You'll have 90 seconds to prepare. Use the phrases and strategies we've learnt to help you. I'll give you feedback and notes to help you hone your skills.

#### Situation 3

make a case to management for why you should be considered for promotion in the near future

#### Situation 4 - Presenting a Slide

Context:

* You are researching customer reactions to your new product.
* You don't have as much quantifiable data as you'd originally planned, but will submit the final report by the agreed deadline.
* You are making good progress, but can't give exact figures now — you're still processing the feedback.
* You need to wait for more questionnaires to come back before finishing the report.

Key points you intend to cover

* give an overview of responses to the product so far
* explain some of the difficulties involved
* talk about 'effective questionnaires'

## Vocabulary/Notes

* a cable car
* before that we could* only rely on
* an overview* of
* to oversee - to keep an eye on/supervise
* to overlook - to miss/skip over some important information/task
* bring about v.s. bring up
* quantifiable(pr)
* more convincing*
