---
title: Learnship 01 - 2023/07/25
date: 2023-10-18 17:31:50
categories: Learning
tags:
    - Learnship
---

## Business Language Coaching Target Interview

### What is Business Language Coaching?

Learnship's Business Language Coaching is designed for business professionals and executives from around the globe who regularly conduct business with English speakers. It is delivered by experienced native-level language coaches and targets developing professional communicative competence across a range of business areas or situations directly related to your career goals.

Whether you need to prepare for an upcoming high-stakes presentation, or need to add range and nuance to your language and communication ability in industry or department-specific areas, Business Language Coaching can help you. The exact focus of your course can be discussed directly with your coach.

### What learning resources does Business Language Coaching use?

Our standard comprehensive courses take advantage of the structure that CERF-linked course materials provide. By contrast, Business Language Coaching sessions apply a range of tailored learning resources to the language-learning experience. These include the following and more:

* Case studies
* Your documents
* Discussion frameworks
* Newspaper articles

### Where can language coaching help you?

* To develop nuance in spoken business English
* To strengthen the ability to build arguments at meetings
* To improve active listening
* To write effective business reports
* To write strategically effective emails
* To present multiple options to a senior group of business people
* To explain opportunities and risks of a proposed action
* To interrupt politely at meetings
* To summarize effectively
* To defend your interests firmly and politely
* To refer to statistics and diagrams to support a point
* To deal with sensitive interpersonal situations professionally and confidently
* To compare and contrast alternative options
* To write a project proposal
* To negotiate terms and conditions
* To lead virtual meetings
* To facilitate  effective meetings
* To pitch a concept as part of a sales presentation
* To describe technical processes
* To handle small talk situations calmly and positively

## The topics

### Needs for the course

* difficulty accessing vocabulary in meetings <-- use flashcards, spaced repetition
* develop presentation skills(e.g. sprint review meeting, giving a demo of your work)
  * cadence
  * can't breath! not sure when to stop
  * pausing + intonation
* asking questions and communicating in a more native way
  * the right wording
  * politeness
  * appropriateness(directness, softening language)
    * def: using the right language for the situation

### All about you

#### My name:

My name is Yitao Zhou.

#### My nationality:

I was born and raised in China.

#### My current location:

I am currently living at Boston, MA, U.S.

#### My experience:

I was previously a student majored in Computer Science. After I got my undergraduate degree in China, I came to the U.S. to pursue my master's degree. After the graduation, I worked for Amazon and live in Boston. I am a Mandarin native speaker, I have been learning English for several years.

#### My hobbies:

I enjoy taking a short walk with my wife everyday. Also, we would watch 2~3 episodes each day, mostly detective stories(like True Detective, The Killing etc). During the weekend, we would take one day to do a small trip to nearby cities. The other day we just cook and rest at home. I am trying to develop a habit of reading recently.

#### Language use:

Now I am a software development engineer working for Amazon Web Service, more specifically, the EFS organization.

## Vocabulary

* We are used to watching.../we typically watch...
* breathe
